hwdef:BlueBerry:add board support (#33198)
ArduPilot/ardupilot: libraries/AP_HAL_ChibiOS/hwdef/BlueBerryH743/README.md

# BlueBerry_H743 Flight Controller

The BlueBerry_H743 is a flight controller designed and produced by blueberry

## Features

- STM32H743 microcontroller
- Dual ICM426** IMUs
- 13 PWM / Dshot outputs

> - 8 UARTs, one with CTS/RTS flow control pins

Reviewer: the user has no access to the BT module flow control pins, so why mention them????in fact UART7 connector is unusable, as far as I can see since you show no way to disable the BT's tx connection to RX7 of the UART...the use would ahve to heavily overdrive the RX7 to overcome the BT module's TX output....you need to warn of this in the README

```suggestion
- 8 UARTs, one dedicated to the one board BT module
```

- 1 CAN

> - Dedicated USB board

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Dedicated remote USB board with buzzer and boot switch
```

- DPS310 or SPL06 barometer

> - 5V/6V/7.2V/8.4V 14A Servo rail BEC

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- 5V/6V/7.2V/8.4V 14A Servo rail BEC provided
```

> - 9V 3A BEC for VTX

Reviewer: you really should have provided switching on off via a GPIO for this supply

- 5V 3A BEC
- MicroSD Card Slot

> - 2-way camera input

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- SGPIO switchable dual analog camera inputs
```

- AT7456E OSD

> - 2 I2Cs

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- 2 external I2Cs
```

## Physical

![BlueBerry_H743 overview](BlueBerry_H743_overview.jpg)

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Pinout

```

![BlueBerry_H743 pinout](BlueBerry_H743_pinout.png)

![BlueBerry_H743 wiring_diagran](BlueBerry_H743_wiring_diagran.png)

## Mechanical

- Dimensions: 34 x 51 x 15 mm
- Weight: 40g

> ## Power supply

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Power supplies
```

> The BlueBerry_H743 supports 3-12s Li battery input. It has 3 ways of BEC. Please see the table below.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The BlueBerry_H743 supports 3-12s Li battery input. It provides 3 on-board BEC regulators. Please see the table below.
```

| Power symbol | Power source | Max power (current) |
|--------------|--------------|---------------------|
| 5V | from 5V BEC | 15W (3A) |
| 9V | from 9V BEC | 27W (3A) |

> | VX | from Servo rail VX BEC, default 5V, can be changed to 6V or 7.2V or 8.4V | 70W (14A) |S

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| VX | Servo rail VX BEC, default 5V, can be changed to 6V or 7.2V or 8.4V | 70W (14A) |
```

## Loading Firmware

> Initial firmware load can be done with DFU by plugging in USB with the bootloader button pressed. Then you should load the "with_bl.hex" firmware, using your favorite DFU loading tool, such as Mission Planner.

Reviewer: Mission Planner does not work in DFU mode
```suggestion
Initial firmware load can be done with DFU by plugging in USB with the bootloader button pressed. Then you should load the "xxx_with_bl.hex" firmware, using your favorite DFU loading tool, such as the STM32CubeProgrammer.
```

Once the initial firmware is loaded you can update the firmware using any ArduPilot ground station software. Updates should be done with the "\*.apj" firmware files.

> Supports SWD for program downloading, can be used for debugging and secondary development, with program download speed significantly better than DFU.

Reviewer: remove...there are no SWD or debug port pinned out...just confuses a normal user

## UART Mapping

All UARTs are DMA capable.

- SERIAL0 -> USB
- SERIAL1 -> UART1 (MAVLink2)
- SERIAL2 -> UART2 (GPS)
- SERIAL3 -> UART3 (MAVLink2)
- SERIAL4 -> UART4 (GPS2, RX4 is also available as ESC telem if protocol is changed for this UART)
- SERIAL5 -> USB (SLCAN)
- SERIAL6 -> UART6 (RCIN)

> - SERIAL7 -> UART7 (MAVLink2, Integrated Bluetooth module)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- SERIAL7 -> UART7 (MAVLink2, dedicated to the Integrated Bluetooth module)
```
as noted above you need to address the issue that this is also pinned out...and no apparent way to power off the/disconnect the BT module

- SERIAL8 -> UART8 (User)

## RC Input

> When the SERIALn_PROTOCOL parameter for RCin is 23, it accepts SBUS protocol input; when set to 0, it supports CRSF protocol input.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
RC input is provided on UART6 for all ArduPilot supported protocols except PPM. The SBUS pin on the HD VTX connector is tied to RX6. See [RC Systems](https://ardupilot.org/plane/docs/common-rc-systems.html) for details for each protocol type.
```

## OSD Support

The BlueBerry_H743 supports onboard analog SD OSD using a AT7456 chip. The analog VTX should connect to the VTX pin.

## PWM Output

The BlueBerry_H743 supports up to 13 PWM outputs.

> All the channels support DShot.

Reviewer: youu should enable BDIR on at least the first four outpus (which are pinned out on the ESC connector)

And noting again that you pin out RX7 on the ESC connector....again an apparent conflict with the BT module!

Outputs are grouped and every output within a group must use the same output protocol:

1, 2 are Group 1;

3, 4, 5, 6 are Group 2;

7, 8, 9, 10 are Group 3;

11, 12 are Group 4;

13(LED) is Group 5;

> Output 13 can be used as LED neopixel output;

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Output 13 , marked LED, can be used as a  neopixel output
```
you could default this pin to serial led with appropriate lines in hwdef and defaults.parm to make it easy for the user ot utilize, but your choice

## Battery Monitoring

The board has two internal voltage sensors and one integrated current sensor, and a second external current sensor input.

The voltage sensors can handle up to 12S LiPo batteries.

> The first voltage/current sensor is enabled by default and the pin inputs for the second, unenabled sensor are also set by default:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The first voltage/current sensor is enabled by default and the pin inputs and voltage scale for the second, unenabled, sensor are also set by default:
```

- BATT_MONITOR 4
- BATT_VOLT_PIN 10
- BATT_CURR_PIN 11
- BATT_VOLT_MULT 21
- BATT_AMP_PERVLT 40
- BATT2_VOLT_PIN 18
- BATT2_CURR_PIN 7
- BATT2_VOLT_MULT 21

## Compass

> The BlueBerry_H743 has no built-in compass, so if needed, you should use an external compass.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The BlueBerry_H743 has no built-in compass. An external compass can be attached to either set of SDA/SCL pins or via DroneCAN.
```

> ## Analog cameras

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Camera Switch
```

> The BlueBerry_H743 supports up to 2 cameras, connected to pin CAM1 and CAM2. You can select the video signal to VTX from camera by an RC channel. Set the parameters below:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The BlueBerry_H743 supports up to 2 cameras, connected to pin CAM1 and CAM2. You can select whcih camera is used by an RC channel. Set the parameters below (RC 6 used in the example:
```

dont use either RC5 or 8 in examples...they are the default mode switch channels in vehicles

- RELAY2_FUNCTION = 1

> - RELAY_PIN2 = 82

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- RELAY2_PIN = 82
```

got to give valid parameters in examples

> - RC8_OPTION = 34

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- RC6_OPTION = 34
```

## Bluetooth

> The ABlueBerry_H743 support both legacy bluetooth SPP and BLE serial. The bluetooth uses UART7 as serial port. Search for `BLE` or `SPP` to connect.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The BlueBerry_H743 support both legacy bluetooth SPP and BLE serial. The bluetooth uses UART7 for its serial port. Search for `BLE` or `SPP` to connect. Be careful NOT to use UART7 for other uses.
```
